Module 1: Overview of System Center 2016

Lab: Reviewing System Center Components
---------------------------------------

Scenario

Contoso Ltd. has an existing System Center 2012 R2 environment that they plan to
upgrade to System Center 2016. Before performing the upgrade, you must review
the existing System Center 2012 R2 components to ensure they are running as
expected. This will help ensure that the upgrade to System Center 2016 occurs
without issues.

Objectives

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Review the Operations Manager console and confirm version information.

-   Review the Orchestrator console and confirm version information.

-   Review the Data Protection Manager console and confirm version information.

-   Review the Virtual Machine Manager console and confirm version information.

-   Review the Service Manager console and confirm version information.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 45 minutes

**LON-HOST1 Virtual Machines:** LON-DC1, LON-SQ1, LON-OM1, LON-OR1, LON-VM1,
LON-DPM1

**User Name:** Contoso\\Administrator

**Password:** Pa55w.rd

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Review the Operations Manager console and confirm version information.

-   Review the Orchestrator console and confirm version information.

-   Review the Data Protection Manager console and confirm version information.

-   Review the Virtual Machine Manager console and confirm version information.

-   Review the Service Manager console and confirm version information.

### Exercise 1: Reviewing the System Center 2012 R2 environment

Scenario

To ensure the System Center 2012 R2 is ready for upgrade to System Center 2016,
you must open the console for each component and ensure it is functioning as
expected. You must also ensure that each component has been upgraded to the
relevant version in preparation for upgrading to System Center 2016.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Review the Operations Manager Console and confirm version information

2.  Review the Orchestrator Console and confirm version information

3.  Review the Data Protection Manager Console and confirm version information

4.  Review the Virtual Machine Manager Console and confirm version information

5.  Review the Service Manager Console and confirm version information

####   Task 1: Review the Operations Manager Console and confirm version information

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                  |
|----------|------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-OM1**            |
| Tool     | **Operations Console** |
| Location | **Desktop**            |

1.  From the desktop open the **Operations Console** and review the following
    views:

2.  Monitoring

    -   Active Alerts

    -   Windows Computers

    -   Operations Manager\\Management Group Diagram

3.  Administration

    -   Device Management\\Agent Managed

    -   Device Management\\Management Servers

    -   Management Packs

4.  Reporting

    -   Application Monitoring

    -   Microsoft Generic Report Library

5.  Authoring

    -   Distributed Applications

6.  Open the **Diagram View** for the **Operations Manager Management Group**
    and review the various components

7.  Close the **Operations Console.**

8.  Edit the **Properties** of the **HealthService.dll** from the **C:\\Program
    Files\\Microsoft System Center 2012 R2\\Operations Manager\\Server** folder.

9.  From the **Details** tab, confirm the File Version displays **7.1.10292.0**.
    This confirms **UR12** for **Operations Manager** has been installed.

10. Close **File Explorer**.

11. Close the **Operations Console** and then shut down **LON-OM1**

####   Task 2: Review the Orchestrator Console and confirm version information

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                |
|----------|----------------------|
| Computer | **LON-OR1**          |
| Tool     | **Runbook Designer** |
| Location | **Desktop**          |

1.  From the desktop open the **Runbook Designer** and review the **Activities**
    available in the following **Categories**:

    -   System

    -   Scheduling

    -   Monitoring

    -   File Management

    -   Email

    -   Notification

    -   Utilities

    -   Text File Management

    -   Runbook Control

2.  Confirm the **Orchestration Console** opens and review the information
    displayed. Then close **the Orchestration Console**.

3.  Edit the **Properties** of the **RunbookDesigner.exe** file from
    **C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Microsoft System Center 2012
    R2\\Orchestrator\\Runbook Designer** and confirm the **File Version** is
    **7.2.200.0**. This confirms **UR8** for Orchestrator 2012 R2 has been
    installed

4.  Close **File Explorer** and the **Runbook Designer**

5.  Shut down **LON-OR1**

####   Task 3: Review the Data Protection Manager Console and confirm version information

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                                       |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-DPM1**                                                |
| Tool     | **Microsoft System Center 2012 R2 Data Protection Manager** |
| Location | **Desktop**                                                 |

1.  From the desktop open the Microsoft System Center 2012 R2 Data Protection
    Manager Administrator Console and review the following views:

2.  Monitoring

    -   Alerts\\Information

    -   Alerts\\Warning

    -   Alerts\\Critical

    -   Jobs\\All Jobs

3.  Protection

    -   Protection Groups\\File Data

4.  Reporting

5.  Management

    -   Agents

    -   Disks

    -   Online

    -   Libraries

6.  Open the **About DPM** window and confirm the **Version** information
    displays **4.2.1473.0**. This confirms that **UR10** for **DPM 2012 R2** has
    been installed

7.  Close the **DPM Administrator Console**

8.  Shut down **LON-DPM1**

9.  In Hyper-V Manager on **LON-HOST1**, start **LON-SQ2**.

####   Task 4: Review the Virtual Machine Manager Console and confirm version information

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                               |
|----------|-------------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-VM1**                         |
| Tool     | **Virtual Machine Manager Console** |
| Location | **Desktop**                         |

1.  From the desktop open the **Virtual Machine Manager Console** and review the
    following views:

2.  VMs and Services

    -   Clouds

    -   VM Networks

3.  Fabric

    -   Infrastructure\\Library Servers

    -   Infrastructure\\Update Server

    -   Infrastructure\\VMM Server

    -   Networking\\Logical Networks

    -   Networking\\Port Profiles

    -   Networking\\Port Classifications

    -   Storage\\Classifications and Pools

4.  Settings

    -   Security

    -   System Center Settings

5.  Jobs

    -   History

6.  Close the **Virtual Machine Manager Console**.

7.  Edit the **Properties** of the **VMMHelperHost.dll** file from **C:\\Program
    Files\\Microsoft System Center 2012 R2\\Virtual Machine Manager\\Bin** and
    confirm the **File Version** displays **3.2.7510.0**. This confirms **UR9**
    for **Virtual Machine Manager 2012 R2** is installed

8.  Close **File Explorer**.

9.  Shut down **LON-VM1**

10. In **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1**, start **LON-SM1**

####   Task 5: Review the Service Manager Console and confirm version information

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                       |
|----------|-----------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-SM1**                 |
| Tool     | **Service Manager Console** |
| Location | **Desktop**                 |

1.  From the desktop open the **Service Manager Console** and review the
    following views:

2.  Work Items

    -   Activity Management

    -   Change Management

    -   Incident Management

    -   Problem Management

    -   Release Management Folder

    -   Service Request Fulfilment

3.  Administration

    -   Connectors

    -   Management Packs

    -   Security

    -   Service Level Management

4.  Library

    -   Lists

    -   Queues

    -   Service Catalog

    -   Templates

5.  Configuration Items

    -   Computers

    -   Users

6.  Reporting

    -   Activity Management

    -   Incident Management

    -   Problem Management

7.  Close the Service Manager Console.

8.  Edit the **Properties** of the **SCMsgs.dll** file from **C:\\Program
    Files\\Microsoft System Center 2012 R2\\Service Manager** and confirm the
    **File Version** displays **7.5.3079.607**. This confirms that **UR9** for
    **Service Manager 2012 R2** is installed

9.  Close the **SCMsgs.dll** file and then shut down **LON-SM1**

10. In **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1**, shut down all VMs except
    **LON-DC1.**

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have opened the console for each
System Center 2012 R2 component and confirmed it is functioning. You should have
also confirmed each component has the relevant Update Rollup installed. This is
a prerequisite before an upgrade to system Center 2016 can be performed.

>   **Question:** How can you determine the version of Operations Manager 2012
>   R2 that is installed including any Update Rollups that have been applied?

>   ©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

>   The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons
>   Attribution 3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content
>   contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks,
>   logos, images, etc.) are not included within the Creative Commons license
>   grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
>   intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this
>   document for your internal, reference purposes.

>   This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
>   document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
>   without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
>   illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
>   inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to
>   the information provided here.
