Module 1: Overview of System Center 2016

Lab: Reviewing System Center Components

### Exercise 1: Reviewing the System Center 2012 R2 environment

####   Task 1: Review the Operations Manager Console and confirm version information

1.  On **LON-OM1**, from the desktop, double-click **Operations Console**.

2.  In the **Operations Manager Console** that opens, click the **Monitoring**
    workspace and then review the following views:

-   Active Alerts

-   Windows Computers

-   Operations Manager\\Management Group Diagram

1.  Click the **Administration** workspace and then review the following views:

-   Device Management\\Agent Managed

-   Device Management\\Management Servers

-   Management Packs

1.  Click the **Reporting** workspace and review the following views:

-   Application Monitoring

-   Microsoft Generic Report Library

1.  Click the **Authoring** workspace and then click **Distributed
    Applications**.

2.  From the details pane, right-click **Operations Manager Management Group**
    and then click **View Diagram**.

3.  In the **Diagram View – CONTOSO – Operations Manager** window that opens,
    review the various components and then close the window.

4.  Close the **Operations Console.**

5.  Open **File Explorer** and navigate to **C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft System
    Center 2012 R2\\Operations Manager\\Server.**

6.  Right-click **HealthService.dll** and then click **Properties**.

7.  In the **HealthService.dll Properties** window that opens, click the
    **Details** tab.

8.  Confirm the **File Version** information displays **7.1.10292.0**. This
    confirms that Operations Manager **UR12** has been installed.

9.  Close the **HealthService.dll Properties** window.

10. Close **File Explorer**.

11. Close the **Operations Console** and then shut down **LON-OM1**.

####   Task 2: Review the Orchestrator Console and confirm version information

1.  On **LON-OR1**, from the desktop double-click **Runbook Designer**.

2.  In the **System Center 2012 R2 Orchestrator Runbook Designer** that opens,
    from the Activities pane review the **Activities** available in the
    following **Categories**:

    -   System

    -   Scheduling

    -   Monitoring

    -   File Management

    -   Email

    -   Notification

    -   Utilities

    -   Text File Management

    -   Runbook Control

3.  From the toolbar, click **Orchestration Console**.

4.  Confirm the **Orchestration Console** opens and review the contents.

5.  Close the **Orchestration Console**.

6.  Close the **System Center 2012 R2 Orchestrator Runbook Designer**.

7.  Open **File Explorer** and then navigate to **C:\\Program Files
    (x86)\\Microsoft System Center 2012 R2\\Orchestrator\\Runbook Designer**.

8.  Right-click **RunbookDesigner.exe** and then click **Properties**.

9.  In the **RunbookDesigner.exe Properties** window that opens, click the
    **Details** tab.

10. Confirm the **File Version** information displays **7.2.200.0**. This
    confirms **UR8** for **Orchestrator 2012 R2** has been installed.

11. Close the **RunbookDesigner.exe Properties** window.

12. Close File Explorer.

13. Shut down **LON-OR1.**

####   Task 3: Review the Data Protection Manager Console and confirm version information

1.  On **LON-DPM1**, from the desktop, double-click Microsoft System Center 2012
    R2 Data Protection Manager.

2.  In the **System Center 2012 R2 DPM Administrator Console** that opens, click
    the **Monitoring** workspace and review the following views:

-   Alerts\\Information

-   Alerts\\Warning

-   Alerts\\Critical

-   Jobs\\All Jobs

1.  Click the **Protection** workspace and review the following views:

-   All Protection Groups\\File Data

1.  Click the **Reporting** workspace and review the details pane.

2.  Click the **Management** workspace and review the following views:

-   Agents

-   Disks

-   Online

-   Libraries

1.  From the toolbar click **About DPM**.

2.  In the **About Microsoft System Center 2012 R2 Data Protection Manager**
    window that opens, confirm the **Version** information displays
    **4.2.1473.0**. This confirms that **UR10** for **DPM 2012 R2** has been
    installed.

3.  Close the **About Microsoft System Center 2012 R2 Data Protection Manager**
    window.

4.  Close the **System Center 2012 R2 DPM Administrator Console**.

5.  Shut down **LON-DPM1.**

6.  In **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1**, start **LON-SQ2**.

####   Task 4: Review the Virtual Machine Manager Console and confirm version information

1.  On **LON-VM1**, from the desktop, double-click **Virtual Machine Manager
    Console**.

2.  In the **Virtual Machine Manager Console** that opens, click the **VMs and
    Services** workspace and review the following views:

-   Clouds

-   VM Networks

1.  Click the **Fabric** workspace and review the following views:

-   Infrastructure\\Library Servers

-   Infrastructure\\Update Server

-   Infrastructure\\VMM Server

-   Networking\\Logical Networks

-   Networking\\Port Profiles

-   Networking\\Port Classifications

-   Storage\\Classifications and Pools

1.  Click the **Settings** workspace and review the following views:

-   Security

-   System Center Settings

1.  Click the **Jobs** workspace and review the **History** view.

2.  Close the **Virtual Machine Manager Console.**

3.  Open **File Explorer** and navigate to **C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft System
    Center 2012 R2\\Virtual Machine Manager\\Bin**.

4.  Right-click **VMMHelperHost.dll** and then click **Properties**.

5.  In the **VMMHelperHost.dll Properties** window that opens click the
    **Details** tab.

6.  Confirm the **File Version** information displays **3.2.7510.0**. This
    confirms **UR9** for **Virtual Machine Manager 2012 R2** is installed.

7.  Close the **VMMHelperHost.dll Properties** window.

8.  Close **File Explorer**.

9.  Shut down **LON-VM1.**

10. In **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1,** start **LON-SM1**.

####   Task 5: Review the Service Manager Console and confirm version information

1.  From **Hyper-V Manager,** connect to **LON-SM1** and login using the
    **Contoso\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd.**

2.  On **LON-SM1**, from the desktop, double-click **Service Manager Console**.

3.  In the **Service Manager Console** that opens, click the **Work Items**
    workspace, expand the following folders and review the views within them:

-   Activity Management

-   Change Management

-   Incident Management

-   Problem Management

-   Release Management Folder

-   Service Request Fulfilment

1.  Click the **Administration** workspace and review the following views:

-   Connectors

-   Management Packs

-   Security

-   Service Level Management

1.  Click the **Library** workspace and review the following views:

-   Lists

-   Queues

-   Service Catalog

-   Templates

1.  Click the **Configuration Items** workspace and review the following views:

-   Computers

-   Users

1.  Click the **Reporting** workspace and review the following views:

-   Activity Management

-   Incident Management

-   Problem Management

1.  Close the **Service Manager Console.**

2.  Open **File Explorer** and navigate to **C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft System
    Center 2012 R2\\Service Manager.**

3.  Right-click **SCMsgs.dll** and then click **Properties**.

4.  In the **SCMsgs.dll Properties** window that opens, click the **Details**
    tab.

5.  Confirm the **File Version** information displays **7.5.3079.607**. This
    confirms that **UR9** for **Service Manager 2012 R2** is installed.

6.  Close the **SCMsgs.dll Properties** window.

7.  Close **File Explorer**.

8.  Shut down **LON-SM1**.

9.  In **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1**, shut down all VMs except
    **LON-DC1.**

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have opened the console for each
System Center 2012 R2 component and confirmed it is functioning. You should have
also confirmed each component has the relevant Update Rollup installed. This is
a prerequisite before an upgrade to system Center 2016 can be performed.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
