Module 12: Operating Operations Management Suite Insight and Analytics

Lab: Operating the Operations Management Suite Insight and Analytics Solution
Packs

### Exercise 1: Using Network Performance Monitor to troubleshoot a networking issue

####   Task 1: Review Network Summary information

1.  On **LON-HOST1** from the desktop, double-click **OMS Portal.**

2.  In the **OMS Porta**l that opens, from the home page. click the **Network
    Performance Monitor** tile.

3.  In the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard that opens, review the
    information displayed in the **Network Summary** section including the
    following:

-   Current Networks

-   Subnetwork Links

-   Network Links

-   Paths

1.  Click the **Network Links** tile.

2.  In the **Network Links** page that opens, click the **Contoso HR Network -\>
    Contoso Corp Network** Network Link.

3.  From the right-hand side, review the **Latency** and **Loss** information in
    the **Trend Chart.**

4.  From the top of the page, click the **Network Performance Monitor** link to
    return to the home page of the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard.

####   Task 2: Review Top Network Health Events information

1.  In the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard on **LON-HOST1**, review
    the information displayed in the **Top Network Health Events** section
    including the following:

-   Active Health Events

-   Unhealthy Network Links

1.  From the **Active Health Events** section, click the **HR Network Monitor**
    rule.

2.  In the **Affected Subnetwork Links** page that opens review the **Subnetwork
    Links** information in the left-hand side of the page including the **Loss**
    and **Latency** information and the **Loss** and **Latency Thresholds**.

3.  In the right-hand side of the page review the **Trend Chart i**ncluding the
    **Latency** and **Loss** values.

4.  Click the **Data base on last 7 days** drop-down list and then click **6
    Hours** and then click **OK**.

5.  Review the changes to the **Trend Chart** including the **Latency** and
    **Loss** values.

6.  Click the **View affected node links** hyper-link.

7.  In the **Node Links** page that opens, review the **Node Links** in the
    left-hand side of the page.

8.  Review the **Trend Chart** on the right-hand side of the page including the
    **Latency** and **Loss** values.

9.  Click the **View topology** hyper-link.

10. In the **Topology Dashboard** that opens, hover the mouse pointer over the
    following elements and review the information displayed in the popup
    windows:

-   Source Node

-   Destination Node

-   Hops

-   Link Latency

1.  From the top of the page, click the **Network Performance Monitor** link to
    return to the home page of the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard.

2.  From the **Unhealthy Network Links** section, click the **Contoso HR Network
    -\> Contoso Corporate Network** Network Link.

3.  In the **Subnetwork Links** page that opens, review the **Subnetwork Links**
    including the **Latency** and **Loss** values.

4.  Review the **Trend Chart** including the **Latency** and **Loss**
    information.

5.  From the top of the page, click the **Network Performance Monitor** link to
    return to the home page of the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard.

####   Task 3: Review Top Network Links information

1.  In the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard on **LON-HOST1**, review
    the information displayed in the **Top Subnetwork Links** section including
    the following:

-   Subnetwork Links With Most Loss

-   Subnetwork Links With Most Latency

1.  From the **Subnetwork Links With Most Loss** section click the first
    Subnetwork link.

2.  In the **Node Links** page that opens review the following information in
    the left-hand section:

-   Node Links

-   IP Interfaces

-   Loss

-   Latency

-   Health

1.  From the right-hand section, review the **Trend Chart** and then click
    **View Topology**.

2.  In the **Topology Dashboard** that opens, review the details in the
    right-hand section by clicking each **Node**, **Link** and **Hop**.

3.  From the top of the page, click the **Network Performance Monitor** link to
    return to the home page of the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard.

4.  From the **Subnetwork Links With Most Latency** section, click the second
    Subnetwork Link.

5.  Repeat Steps **3 – 5.**

6.  From the top of the page, click the **Network Performance Monitor** link to
    return to the home page of the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard.

####   Task 4: Customize Common Queries

1.  In the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard on **LON-HOST1**, review
    the queries available in the **Common Queries** section.

2.  Click the **Log Data For All Network Links** query.

3.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, review the results from the query
    that just ran.

4.  In the query box, append the following to the query:

>   SourceNetwork = "Contoso HR Network"

1.  Click the magnifying glass icon to run the query.

2.  Review the results returned from running the customized query.

3.  From the top of the page, click the **Microsoft Operations Management
    Suite** link to return to the home page of the **OMS Portal** then open the
    **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard.

4.  From the **Common Queries** section, click the **Log Data For All Unhealthy
    Network** Links query.

5.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, review the results from the query
    that just ran.

6.  In the query box, append the following to the query:

>   SourceNetwork = "Contoso HR Network" HighLatency \< 2

1.  Click the magnifying glass icon to run the query.

2.  Review the results returned from running the customized query.

3.  From the top of the page, click the **Microsoft Operations Management
    Suite** link to return to the home page of the **OMS Portal**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have used the Network Monitor
Performance dashboard to investigate a network issue relating to the HR website
at Contoso. This includes operating the following sections of the dashboard:
Network Summary, Top Network Health Events, Top Network Links, Common . Queries
You should have also customized an existing common query to return targeted
information relating to the network on which the Contoso HR website runs.

### Exercise 2: Using Service Map to review application dependency

####   Task 1: Review application dependencies for the Finance application

1.  From the **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1**, click the **Service Map** tile.

2.  In the **Service Map** page that opens, from the left-hand side of the page.
    click **LON-SQ1**.

3.  From the center section of the page, click **LON-SQ1** and review the
    information displayed in the **Machine Summary** section that opens.

4.  From the list of processes running on **LON-SQ1,** click the **LSA Shell**
    process.

5.  Make a note of the **Client** machine connected to the **LSA Shell**
    process.

6.  From the list of processes running on **LON-SQ1** click the second
    **svchost** process.

7.  Make a note of the **Servers** connected to the **svchost** process by
    clicking the **Port 443 (https)** box and then click **Properties** from the
    navigation on the right.

8.  From the machine list in the left-hand section of the page, click the client
    machine noted in **Step 5**.

9.  Repeat **Steps 3 – 7** substituting **LON-SQ1** with the client machine name
    noted in **Step 5**. Also replace the **svchost** process with **System**.

10. From the right-hand section, click the **Properties** tile and review the
    information displayed in the **Machine Properties** section.

11. From the right-hand section, click the **Performance** tile and review the
    information displayed in the **Machine Performance** section.

12. From the right-hand section, click the **Log Events** tile and review the
    information displayed in the **Machine Log Events** section.

13. Leave the **Service Map** page open.

####   Task 2: Review detected changes and security issues

1.  On **LON-HOST1**, from the desktop, open the **OMS Experience Center** and
    sign in using the **Security and Compliance** scenario.

2.  In the **OMS Experience Center Porta**l click **Service Map**.

3.  In the **Service Map** page. from the left-hand side of the page, click
    **AcmeWFE001**.

4.  In the center of the page, click the **AcmeWFE001** server name to bring it
    into focus.

5.  From the right-hand section of the page, click **Changes**.

6.  In the **Machine Change Tracking** pane that opens, review the changes
    detected on **AcmeWFE001**.

7.  Click a detected change and then review the details displayed.

8.  Click the **AcmeWFE002**.computer from the left-hand side of the page and
    bring the computer into focus.

9.  From the right-hand section of the page, click **Security**.

10. In the **Machine Security** pane that opens, review the detected **Notable
    Security Issues** on **AcmeWFE002**

11. Close the **OMS Experience Center** Portal.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have used Service Map to review the
application dependencies of the Finance application. You should have also used
Service Map to review change tracking, security issues, and updates relevant to
the Finance application.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
