Module 2: Upgrading to System Center 2016

Lab: Upgrading to System Center 2016

### Exercise 1: Upgrading Orchestrator to System Center 2016

####   Task 1: Back up the Orchestrator database

1.  On **LON-SQ1** from the desktop, double-click **SQL Server 2014 Management
    Studio**.

2.  In the **Connect to Server** window that opens, type **LON-SQ1** in the
    **Server name** box and then click **Connect**.

3.  From the **Object Explorer** pane, expand **Databases** and then right-click
    **Orchestrator**, then click **Tasks** and then click **Back up**.

4.  In the **Back Up Database – Orchestrator** window that opens click **OK**.

5.  Wait until the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio** window opens and
    displays the message **The backup of database ‘Orchestrator’ completed
    successfully** appears, and then click **OK**.

6.  Close the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (Administrator)** window.

7.  Log off **LON-SQ1**.

####   Task 2: Uninstall System Center 2012 R2 Orchestrator

1.  On **LON-OR1** click **Start**, then click **Control Panel**.

2.  In the **All Control Panel Items** window that opens, click **Programs and
    Features.**

3.  In the **Programs and Features** window that opens, right-click **System
    Center 2012 Orchestrator Management Server** and then click **Uninstall**.

4.  In the **Programs and Features** window that opens, click **Yes**.

5.  Wait until the uninstallation completes.

6.  Right-click **System Center 2012 Orchestrator Runbook Server** and then
    click **Uninstall**.

7.  In the **Programs and Features** window that opens, click **Yes**.

8.  Wait until the uninstallation completes.

9.  Right-click **System Center 2012 Orchestrator Runbook Designer** and then
    click **Uninstall**.

10. In the **Programs and Features** window that opens, click **Yes**.

11. Wait until the uninstallation completes.

12. Right-click **System Center 2012 Orchestrator Web Features** and then click
    **Uninstall**.

13. In the **Programs and Features** window that opens, click **Yes**.

14. Wait until the uninstallation completes.

15. Close the **Programs and Features** window.

16. Close **Control Panel.**

17. Restart **LON-OR1**.

####   Task 3: Install System Center 2016 Orchestrator

1.  On **LON-OR1** browse to
    **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\Orchestrator**.

2.  Double-click **SetupOrchestrator**.

3.  If an **Open File – Security Warning** window appears, click **Run**.

4.  In the **System Center 2016** window that opens, click **Install**.

5.  In the **System Center 2016 Orchestrator Setup** wizard that opens, on the
    **Product registration** page, type **Contoso** in the **Organization** name
    box and then click **Next**.

6.  On the **Please read this License Terms** page, select **I accept the
    license terms** and then click **Next**.

7.  On the **Diagnostic and Usage data** page, click **Next**.

8.  On the **Select features to install** page, ensure all features are selected
    except **Orchestration Console and Web Service** and then click **Next**.

9.  On the **Please review these prerequisite warnings** page, click **Next**.

10. On the **Configure the service account** page, type
    **Contoso\\Orchestrator-SVC** in the **Username** box, type **Pa\$\$w0rd**
    in the **Password** box and then click **Test**.

11. Confirm the **Credentials accepted** message appears and then click
    **Next**.

12. On the **Configure the database server** page type **LON-SQ1** in the
    **Server** box and then click **Test Database Connection**.

13. Confirm the **Database connection succeeded** message appears and then click
    **Next**.

14. On the **Configure the database** page select **Existing database** and then
    click **Next**.

15. On the **Configure Orchestrator users group** page, click **Next**.

16. On the **Configure the ports for the web services** page, click **Next**.

17. On the **Select the installation location** page, click **Next**.

18. On the **Microsoft Update** page, select **Off** and then click **Next**.

19. On the **Help improve Microsoft System Center Orchestrator** page, select
    **No, I am not willing to participate** and then click **Next**.

20. On the **Installation summary** page, click **Install**.

21. On the **Setup completed successfully** page, de-select all three options
    and then click **Close**.

####   Task 4: Verify the upgrade completed successfully

1.  On **LON-OR1** click **Start**, expand **Microsoft System Center 2012** and
    then click **Runbook Designer.**

2.  Confirm the **System Center Orchestrator Runbook Designer** opens
    successfully.

3.  From the **Toolbar**, click **Help**, then click **About**.

4.  In the **About Orchestrator Runbook Designer** window that opens confirm
    **System Center 2016** is displayed and then click **OK**.

5.  From the toolbar click **Orchestration Console**.

6.  Confirm the **Orchestration Console** opens and then close the
    **Orchestration Console**.

7.  Close the **System Center Orchestrator Runbook Designer** window.

8.  Shut down **LON-OR1**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have taken a backup of the
Orchestrator database. You should have uninstalled all Orchestrator components
except the Orchestrator database, and then installed System Center 2016
Orchestrator using the existing database. You should have then upgraded the
Orchestrator Integration Packs. Finally, you should have opened the Runbook
Designer and confirmed the upgrade was successful.

### Exercise 2: Upgrading Service Manager to System Center 2016

####   Task 1: Stop the Data Warehouse Jobs.

1.  On **LON-SM1** from the desktop, double-click **Service Manager Console**.

2.  In the **Service Manager Console** that opens, click the **Data Warehouse**
    workspace when it becomes available. This can take up to two minutes.

3.  Click **Data Warehouse Jobs**.

4.  For each **Data Warehouse Job** listed with a **Status** of **Running**
    (except the **MPSyncJob** job) perform the following task:

5.  Right-click the **Job** and then click **Suspend**.

6.  When all **Jobs** except the **MPSyncJob** are in a **Not Started** or
    **Stopped** state, close the **Service Manager Console**. If no jobs are
    running then proceed to the next task.

####   Task 2: Backup the Service Manager databases

1.  On **LON-SQ2** from the desktop, double-click **SQL Server 2014 Management
    Studio**.

2.  In the **Connect to Server** window that opens, type **LON-SQ2** in the
    **Server name** box and then click **Connect**.

3.  From the **Object Explorer** pane, expand **Databases** and then right-click
    **ServiceManager**, then click **Tasks** and then click **Back up**.

4.  In the **Back Up Database – ServiceManager** window that opens click **OK**.

5.  Wait until the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio** window opens and
    displays the message **The backup of database ‘ServiceManager completed
    successfully** appears, and then click **OK**.

6.  Repeat Steps **3 -5** for the following databases:

-   CMDWDataMart

-   DWDataMart

-   DWRepository

-   DWStagingAndConfig

-   OMDWDataMart

-   ReportServer

1.  Close the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (Administrator)** window.

####   Task 3: Upgrade the Data Warehouse Management Server and backup the encryption key

1.  On **LON-SQ2** navigate to
    **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\ServiceManager** and then
    double-click **Setup.exe**.

2.  If an **Open File – Security Warning** window appears, click **Run**.

3.  In the **System Center 2016** window that opens, click **Service Manager
    data warehouse management server**.

4.  In the **Service Manager Setup Wizard** that opens, on the **Prepare for
    upgrade** page, select both options and then click **Next**.

5.  On the **Product registration** page select I**nstall as an evaluation
    edition (180 day trial)** and then select **I have read, understood, and
    agree with the terms of the license terms** and then click **Next**.

6.  On the **System check results** page, click **Next**.

7.  Click **OK** on the **Configure database** window that **opens**.

8.  On the **Configuration summary** page, click **Install**.

9.  On the **The upgrade was completed successfully** page, click **Close**.

10. If an **Open File – Security Warning** window appears, click **Run**.

11. In the **Encryption Key Backup or Restore Wizard** that opens, on the
    **Introduction** page, click **Next**.

12. On the **Backup or Restore?** page, select **Backup the Encryption Key** and
    then click **Next**.

13. On the **Provide a Location** page, type **C:\\SMDW2016_Key.bin** in the
    **Path** box and then click **Next**.

14. On the **Provide a Password** page, type **Pa\$\$w0rd** in the **Password**
    and **Confirm Password** boxes and then click **Next**.

15. On the **Secure Storage Backup Complete** page, click **Finish**.

16. Log off **LON-SQ2**.

####   Task 4: Upgrade the Service Manager Management Server and backup the encryption key

1.  On **LON-SM1** navigate to
    **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\ServiceManager** and then
    double-click **Setup.exe**.

2.  In the **System Center 2016** window that opens, click **Service Manager
    management server**.

3.  In the **Service Manager Setup Wizard** that opens, on the **Prepare for
    upgrade** page, select both options and then click **Next**.

4.  On the **Product registration** page select **Install as an evaluation
    edition (180 day trial)** and then select **I have read, understood, and
    agree with the terms of the license terms** and then click **Next**.

5.  On the **System check results** page, click **Next**.

6.  On the **Configuration summary** page, click **Install**.

7.  On the **The upgrade was completed successfully** page, click **Close**.

8.  In the **Encryption Key Backup or Restore Wizard** that opens, on the
    **Introduction** page, click **Next**.

9.  On the **Backup or Restore?** page, select **Backup the Encryption Key** and
    then click **Next**.

10. On the **Provide a Location** page, type **C:\\SM2016_Key.bin** in the
    **Path** box and then click **Next**.

11. On the **Provide a Password** page, type **Pa\$\$w0rd** in the **Password**
    and **Confirm Password** boxes and then click **Next**.

12. On the **Secure Storage Backup Complete** page, click **Finish**.

####   Task 5: Verify the upgrade was successful

1.  On **LON-SM1** from the desktop, double-click **Service Manager Console**.

2.  In the **Service Manager Console** that opens, from the **Help** menu, click
    **About Service Manager**.

3.  In the **About Service Manager** window that opens, confirm **System Center
    2016** is displayed and then click **OK**.

4.  Click the **Work Items** workspace and review the following folders:

-   Incident Management

-   Change Management

-   Problem Management

-   Release Management

1.  Click the **Reporting** workspace and expand **Reports**.

2.  Review the following folders:

-   Activity Management

-   Change Management

-   Incident Management

-   Problem Management

1.  Close the **Service Manager Console**.

2.  Shut down **LON-SM1** and **LON-SQ2**.

3.  From **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1**, start **LON-DPM1**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have performed the following
Service Manager upgrade tasks: Stop the Data Warehouse jobs. Back up the
existing environment. Upgrade the Data Warehouse Management server. Upgrade the
Service Manager Management server. Upgrade the Service Manager consoles and
additional Service Manager Management servers. Restart the Data Warehouse jobs.
You should have then opened the Service Manager console and verified that the
upgrade was successful.

### Exercise 3: Upgrading Data Protection Manager to System Center 2016

####   Task 1: Backup the DPM database

1.  In **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1**, connect to **LON-DPM1** and login
    using **Contoso\\Administrator** and **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  On **LON-DPM1** from the desktop, double-click **SQL Server 2014 Management
    Studio**.

3.  In the **Connect to Server** window that opens, type **LON-DPM1** in the
    **Server name** box and then click **Connect**.

4.  From the **Object Explorer** pane, expand **Databases** and then right-click
    **DPMDB_LON_DPM1**, then click **Tasks** and then click **Back up**.

5.  In the **Back Up Database – DPMDB_LON_DPM1** window that opens click **OK**.

6.  Wait until the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio** window opens and
    displays the message **The backup of database ‘DPMDB_LON_DPM1’ completed
    successfully** appears, and then click **OK**.

7.  Close the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (Administrator)** window.

####   Task 2: Upgrade DPM to System Center 2016

1.  On **LON-DPM1** navigate to
    **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\DataProtectionManager** and then
    double-click **Setup.exe.**

2.  In the **System Center 2016** window that opens, click **Data Protection
    Manager**.

3.  In the **Microsoft Software License Terms** window that opens, select **I
    accept the license terms and conditions** and then click **OK**.

4.  In the **Data Protection Manager Setup** wizard that opens, on the
    **Welcome** page, click **Next**.

5.  On the **Prerequisite Check** page click **Check and Install**.

6.  When prompted, click **Cancel** and then restart **LON-DPM1**.

7.  After **LON-DPM1** has restarted, login and repeat steps **1 – 5**.

8.  On the **Prerequisites Check** page, click **Next**.

9.  On the **Installation Settings** page, click **Next**.

10. On the **Microsoft Update Opt-In** page, select **I do not want to use
    Microsoft Update** and then click **Next**.

11. On the **Installation** page click **Close**.

####   Task 3: Verify the upgrade was successful

1.  On **LON-DPM1** from the desktop, double-click **Microsoft System Center
    2016 Data Protection Manager**.

2.  In the **System Center 2016 DPM Administration Console** that opens, from
    the toolbar, click **About DPM**.

3.  In the **About Microsoft System Center 2016 Data Protection Manager** window
    that opens, confirm **System Center 2016** is displayed and then click
    **OK**.

4.  Click the **Management** workspace.

5.  Click the **Agents** hyperlink and notice that the **Agent Status** column
    for **LON-CM1** displays **Needs updating**.

6.  Close the **System Center 2016 DPM Administrator Console**.

7.  Shut down **LON-DPM1**.

8.  From **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1**, start **LON-OM1.**

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have performed the following DPM
upgrade tasks: Back up the existing DPM database. Upgrade the DPM Server. You
should have then opened the DPM Administrator Console and verified that the
upgrade was successful.

### Exercise 4: Upgrading Operations Manager to System Center 2016

####   Task 1: Backup the Operations Manager databases

1.  On **LON-SQ1** from the desktop, double-click **SQL Server 2014 Management
    Studio**.

2.  In the **Connect to Server** window that opens, type **LON-SQ1** in the
    **Server name** box and then click **Connect**.

3.  From the **Object Explorer** pane, expand **Databases** and then right-click
    **OperationsManager**, then click **Tasks** and then click **Back up**.

4.  In the **Back Up Database – OperationsManager** window that opens click
    **OK**.

5.  Wait until the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio** window opens and
    displays the message **The backup of database ‘OperationsManager’ completed
    successfully** appears, and then click **OK**.

6.  Repeat Steps **3 -5** for the following databases:

-   OperationsManagerDW

1.  Close the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (Administrator)** window.

2.  Logoff **LON-SQ1**.

####   Task 2: Upgrade the Management Server and Console

1.  In **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1**, connect to **LON-OM1** and login
    using **Contoso\\Administrator** and **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  On **LON-OM1** navigate to
    **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\OperationsManager** and then
    double-click **Setup.exe.**

3.  In the **System Center 2016** window that opens, click **Install**.

4.  In the **Operations Manager Setup** wizard that opens, on the **Getting
    Started** page click **Next**.

5.  On the **Please read the license terms** page, select **I have read,
    understood, and agree with the license terms** and then click **Next**.

6.  On the **Select installation location** page, click **Next**.

7.  On the **Proceed with Setup** page, click **Next**.

8.  On the **Configure Operations Manager accounts** page, select **Domain
    Account** and then in the **Domain\\User Name** box type
    **Contoso\\SCOM-DAS.**

9.  In the **Password** box type **Pa\$\$w0rd** and then click **Next**.

10. On the **Ready To Upgrade** page, click **Upgrade**.

11. On the S**etup is complete** page, click **Close**.

12. Close the **System Center 2016** window and then restart **LON-OM1.**

####   Task 3: Upgrade Reporting

1.  Restart **LON-SQ1** and then login using **Contoso\\Administrator** and
    **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  On **LON-SQ1** navigate to
    **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\OperationsManager** and then
    double-click **Setup.exe**.

3.  In the **System Center 2016** window that opens, click **Install**.

4.  In the **Operations Manager Setup** wizard that opens, on the **Getting
    Started** page click **Next**.

5.  On the **Please read the license terms** page, select **I have read,
    understood, and agree with the license terms** and then click **Next**.

6.  On the **Select installation location** page, click **Next**.

7.  On the **Proceed with Setup** page, click **Next**.

8.  On the **Ready To Upgrade** page, click **Upgrade**.

9.  On the **Setup is complete** page, click **Close**.

10. Log off **LON-SQ1**.

####   Task 4: Verify the upgrade was successful

1.  On **LON-OM1,** click **Start**, expand **Microsoft System Center 2016** and
    then click **Operations Console**.

2.  In the **Operations Console** that opens, click the **Help** menu and then
    click **About**.

3.  Confirm the **System Center 2016 Operations Manager** window is displayed
    and then click **OK**.

4.  Click the **Monitoring** workspace and then click **Windows Computers**.

5.  Confirm **LON-OM1** is displayed with a **State** of **Healthy**.

6.  Click **Distributed Applications**.

7.  From the details pane, click **Operations Manager Management Group** and
    then from the **Tasks** pane click **Diagram View**.

8.  In the **Diagram View – CONTOSO – Operations Manager** window that opens,
    review the various components and then close the **Diagram View – CONTOSO –
    Operations Manager** window.

9.  Click the **Reporting** workspace and then click **Microsoft Generic Report
    Library**.

10. Confirm in the details pane that a number of reports are available.

11. Close the **Operations Console**.

12. Shut down **LON-OM1**.

13. From **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1**, start **LON-VM1**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have performed the following tasks:
Back up the Operations Manager databases. Upgrade the Management Server and
Operations Console. Upgrade Reporting. You should have then opened the
Operations Console and confirmed the upgrade to System Center 2016 was
successful.

### Exercise 5: Upgrading Virtual Machine Manager to System Center 2016

####   Task 1: Backup the Virtual Machine Manager database

1.  On **LON-SQ1** from the desktop, double-click **SQL Server 2014 Management
    Studio**.

2.  In the **Connect to Server** window that opens, type **LON-SQ1** in the
    **Server name** box and then click **Connect**.

3.  From the **Object Explorer** pane, expand **Databases** and then right-click
    **VirtualManagerDB**, then click **Tasks** and then click **Back up**.

4.  In the **Back Up Database – VirtualManagerDB** window that opens click
    **OK**.

5.  Wait until the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio** window opens and
    displays the message **The backup of database ‘VirtualManagerDB’ completed
    successfully** appears, and then click **OK**.

6.  Close the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (Administrator)** window.

7.  Log off **LON-SQ1**.

####   Task 2: Upgrade the VMM Management Server

1.  In **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1**, connect to **LON-VM1** and login
    using **Contoso\\Administrator** and **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  On **LON-VM1** click **Start**, then click **Control Panel.**

3.  In the **All Control Panel** Items window that opens, click **Programs and
    Features**.

4.  In the **Programs and Features** window that opens, right-click **Microsoft
    System Center 2012 R2 Virtual Machine Manager**, and then click
    **Uninstall/Change**.

5.  In the **Microsoft System Center 2012 R2 Virtual Machine Manager Setup
    Wizard** that opens, on the W**hat would you like to do?** Page, click
    **Remove features**.

6.  On the **Select features to remove** page, select **VMM management server**
    and **VMM console** and then click **Next**.

7.  On the **Database options** page, ensure **Retain database** is selected and
    then click **Next**.

8.  On the **Summary** page, click **Uninstall**.

9.  After the uninstallation is complete, click **Close**.

10. Restart **LON-VM1**.

11. Login to **LON-VM1**.

12. Navigate to **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\VirtualMachineManager**
    and then double-click **Setup.exe**

13. In the **System Center 2016** window that opens, click **Install**.

14. In the **Microsoft System Center 2016 Virtual Machine Manager Setup Wizard**
    that opens, on the **Select features to install** page, select **VMM
    management server** and then click **Next**.

15. On the **Product registration information** page, click **Next**.

16. On the **Please read this license agreement** page, select **I have read,
    understood, and agree with the terms of the license agreement** and then
    click **Next**.

17. On the **Diagnostic and Usage Data** page, click **Next**.

18. On the **Microsoft Update** page, select **Off** and then click **Next**.

19. On the **Installation location** page, click **Next**.

20. On the **Database configuration** page, type **LON-SQ1** in the **Server
    name** box and then press tab on the keyboard.

21. Confirm the **Existing database** option is selected and then click
    **Next**.

22. On the **Microsoft System Center VMM Setup** window that opens, click
    **Yes**.

23. On the **Configure service account and distributed key management** page,
    type **Contoso\\VMM-SVC** in the **User name and domain** box.

24. Type **Pa\$\$w0rd** in the **Password** box and then click **Next**.

25. On the **Port configuration** page, click **Next**.

26. On the **Library configuration** page click **Next**.

27. On the **Upgrade compatibility** report page click **Next**.

28. On the **Installation summary** page click **Install**.

29. On the **Setup completed successfully** page, de-select both options and
    then click **Close**.

####   Task 3: Verify the upgrade was successful

1.  On **LON-VM1**, from the desktop, double-click **Virtual Machine Manager
    Console**.

2.  In the **Virtual Machine Manager Console** that opens, click the drop-down
    menu in the top-left of the console and then click **About**.

3.  Confirm the **System Center 2016 Virtual Machine Manager** window is
    displayed and then click **Close**.

4.  Click the **VMs and Services** workspace, expand **Clouds** and confirm the
    **Contoso** cloud is displayed.

5.  Click **VM Networks** and confirm the **Contoso VM Network** is displayed.

6.  Click the **Fabric** workspace and then expand **Networking** and then click
    **Logical Networks**.

7.  Confirm the **Contoso Network** is displayed.

8.  Click the **Jobs** workspace and then click **History**.

9.  Review the list of **Jobs** displayed.

10. Close the **VMM Console**.

11. Shut down **LON-VM1**.

12. In **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1,** shut down all VMs except
    **LON-DC1**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have performed the following tasks:
Back up the Virtual Machine Manager database. Upgrade the VMM Management server.
You should have then opened the VMM Console and confirmed the upgrade to System
Center 2016 was successful.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
