Module 2: Upgrading to System Center 2016

Lab: Upgrading to System Center 2016
------------------------------------

Scenario

After reviewing the existing System Center 2012 R2 environment, Contoso Ltd. has
asked you to upgrade their environment to System Center 2016. You must perform
the upgrade in the correct sequence to ensure that all System Center components
function correctly after the upgrade. After upgrading each component, you must
confirm that the relevant console opens without issue to verify that the upgrade
was successful.

Objectives

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Upgrade Orchestrator to System Center 2016.

-   Upgrade Service Manager to System Center 2016.

-   Upgrade DPM to System Center 2016.

-   Upgrade Operations Manager to System Center 2016.

-   Upgrade VMM o System Center 2016.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 150 minutes

**LON-HOST1 Virtual Machines:** LON-DC1, LON-SQ1, LON-OR1, LON-SM1, LON-SQ2

**User Name:** Contoso\\Administrator

**Password:** Pa55w.rd

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Upgrade Orchestrator to System Center 2016.

-   Upgrade Service Manager to System Center 2016.

-   Upgrade DPM to System Center 2016.

-   Upgrade Operations Manager to System Center 2016.

-   Upgrade VMM o System Center 2016.

### Exercise 1: Upgrading Orchestrator to System Center 2016

Scenario

The first component you must upgrade to System Center 2016 is Orchestrator. You
must perform a backup of the Orchestrator database prior to upgrading. Then, you
must remove the Orchestrator components, except for the Orchestrator database.
Next, you should install the System Center 2016 Orchestrator components
retaining the existing database, and update the Orchestrator Integration Packs
to System Center 2016. Finally, open the Runbook Designer to confirm the upgrade
was successful.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Back up the Orchestrator database

2.  Uninstall System Center 2012 R2 Orchestrator

3.  Install System Center 2016 Orchestrator

4.  Verify the upgrade completed successfully

####   Task 1: Back up the Orchestrator database

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                 |
|----------|---------------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-SQ1**                           |
| Tool     | **SQL Server 2014 Management Studio** |
| Location | **Desktop**                           |
| Task     | **Back up**                           |
| Database | **Orchestrator**                      |

1.  From the desktop, open **SQL Server 2014 Management Studio**

2.  Use the **Back up** Task against the **Orchestrator** database to take a
    backup

3.  Confirm the backup completes successfully and then close **SQL Server
    Management Studio**

4.  Log off **LON-SQ1**

####   Task 2: Uninstall System Center 2012 R2 Orchestrator

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                     |
|----------|---------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-OR1**               |
| Tool     | **Programs and Features** |
| Location | **Control Panel**         |
| Task     | **Uninstall**             |
| Program  | **Orchestrator**          |

1.  Open **Control Panel** and then open **Programs and Features**

2.  Uninstall the following applications:

-   System Center 2012 Orchestrator Management Server

-   System Center 2012 Orchestrator Runbook Server

-   System Center 2012 Orchestrator Runbook Designer

-   System Center 2012 Orchestrator Web Features

1.  Close **Programs and Features** and **Control Panel**

2.  Restart **LON-OR1**

####   Task 3: Install System Center 2016 Orchestrator

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                                  |
|----------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-OR1**                                            |
| Tool     | **SetupOrchestrator**                                  |
| Location | **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\Orchestrator** |
| Task     | **Install**                                            |
| Features | **All**                                                |

1.  Run **SetupOrchestrator** from
    **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\Orchestrator** and use the
    **Install** option to install **Orchestrator** ensuring all features except
    **Orchestration Console** and **Web Service** are selected

2.  During setup configure the following settings, all other settings should
    remain as default:

-   Features: **All**

-   Service Account: **Contoso\\Orchestrator-SVC** and **Pa\$\$w0rd**

-   Database server: **LON-SQ1**

-   Configure the database: **Existing database**

1.  Complete the wizard to install **Orchestrator** and de-select all options
    when setup completes

####   Task 4: Verify the upgrade completed successfully

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                |
|----------|----------------------|
| Computer | **LON-OR1**          |
| Tool     | **Runbook Designer** |
| Location | **Start**            |

1.  From the **Start** menu expand **Microsoft System Center 2012** and then
    open **Runbook Designer** and confirm it opens successfully

2.  Open the **Help\\About** window and confirm **System Center 2016** is
    displayed

3.  From the toolbar open the **Orchestration Console** and confirm it opens
    successfully

4.  Close the **Orchestration Console** and **Runbook Designer**

5.  Shut down **LON-OR1**

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have taken a backup of the
Orchestrator database. You should have uninstalled all Orchestrator components
except the Orchestrator database, and then installed System Center 2016
Orchestrator using the existing database. You should have then upgraded the
Orchestrator Integration Packs. Finally, you should have opened the Runbook
Designer and confirmed the upgrade was successful.

### Exercise 2: Upgrading Service Manager to System Center 2016

Scenario

The second System Center 2012 R2 component that you must upgrade to System
Center 2016 is Service Manager. As part of the upgrade, you must perform the
following tasks:

-   Stop the Data Warehouse jobs.

-   Back up the existing environment.

-   Upgrade the Data Warehouse Management Server.

-   Upgrade the Service Manager Management Server.

-   Upgrade the Service Manager Consoles and additional Service Manager
    Management Servers.

-   Restart the Data Warehouse jobs.

After the upgrade has completed, you can open the Service Manager Console, which
you can then use to confirm a successful upgrade to System Center 2016.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Stop the Data Warehouse Jobs.

2.  Backup the Service Manager databases

3.  Upgrade the Data Warehouse Management Server and backup the encryption key

4.  Upgrade the Service Manager Management Server and backup the encryption key

5.  Verify the upgrade was successful

####   Task 1: Stop the Data Warehouse Jobs.

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                       |
|-----------|-----------------------------|
| Computer  | **LON-SM1**                 |
| Tool      | **Service Manager Console** |
| Location  | **Desktop**                 |
| Workspace | **Data Warehouse**          |
| View      | **Data Warehouse Jobs**     |

1.  From the **Data Warehouse Jobs** view in the **Service Manager Console**,
    stop all **Data Warehouse Jobs** except the **MPSyncJob** job.

2.  Close the **Service Manager Console.**

####   Task 2: Backup the Service Manager databases

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                            |
|----------|----------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-SQ2**                      |
| Tool     | **SQL Server Management Studio** |
| Location | **Desktop**                      |
| Task     | **Back up**                      |
| Database | **ServiceManager**               |

1.  From the desktop, open **SQL Server 2014 Management Studio**

2.  Use the **Back up** Task against the **ServiceManager** database to take a
    backup

3.  Repeat Step 3 for the following databases:

-   CMDWDataMart

-   DWDataMart

-   DWRepository

-   DWStagingAndConfig

-   OMDWDataMart

-   ReportServer

1.  Close S**QL Server Management Studio**

####   Task 3: Upgrade the Data Warehouse Management Server and backup the encryption key

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                                    |
|----------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-SQ2**                                              |
| Tool     | **Setup.exe**                                            |
| Location | **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\ServiceManager** |
| Option   | **Service Manager data warehouse management server**     |

1.  Run **Setup.exe** from
    **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\ServiceManager** and select the
    **Service Manager data warehouse management** server option

2.  Complete the **Service Manager Setup Wizard** with the following settings,
    all other settings should remain as default:

-   Edition: Evaluation edition

1.  In the **Encryption Key Backup or Restore Wizard** that opens configure the
    following settings leaving all other settings as default:

-   Backup or Restore Encryption Key: **Backup**

-   Path: **C:\\SMDW2016_Key.bin**

-   Password: **Pa\$\$w0rd**

1.  Complete the **Encryption Key Backup or Restore Wizard**

2.  Log off **LON-SQ2**

####   Task 4: Upgrade the Service Manager Management Server and backup the encryption key

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                                    |
|----------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-SM1**                                              |
| Tool     | **Setup.exe**                                            |
| Location | **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\ServiceManager** |
| Option   | **Service Manager management server**                    |

1.  Run **Setup.exe** from
    **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\ServiceManager** and select the
    **Service Manager management server** option

2.  Complete the **Service Manager Setup Wizard** with the following settings,
    all other settings should remain as default:

-   Edition: Evaluation edition

1.  In the **Encryption Key Backup or Restore Wizard** that opens configure the
    following settings leaving all other settings as default:

-   Backup or Restore Encryption Key: **Backup**

-   Path: **C:\\SM2016_Key.bin**

-   Password: **Pa\$\$w0rd**

1.  Complete the **Encryption Key Backup or Restore Wizard**

####   Task 5: Verify the upgrade was successful

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                           |
|----------|---------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-SM1**                     |
| Tool     | **Service Manager Console**     |
| Location | **Desktop**                     |
| Option   | **Help\\About Service Manager** |

1.  Open the **Service Manager Console** and from the **Help** menu open the
    **About Service Manager** window

2.  Confirm **System Center 2016** is displayed

3.  From the **Work Items** workspace, review the following folders:

-   Incident Management

-   Change Management

-   Problem Management

-   Release Management

1.  From the **Reporting** workspace, review the following folders:

-   Activity Management

-   Change Management

-   Incident Management

-   Problem Management

1.  Close the **Service Manager Console**

2.  Shut down **LON-SM1** and **LON-SQ2**

3.  From **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1**, start **LON-DPM1**

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have performed the following
Service Manager upgrade tasks: Stop the Data Warehouse jobs. Back up the
existing environment. Upgrade the Data Warehouse Management server. Upgrade the
Service Manager Management server. Upgrade the Service Manager consoles and
additional Service Manager Management servers. Restart the Data Warehouse jobs.
You should have then opened the Service Manager console and verified that the
upgrade was successful.

### Exercise 3: Upgrading Data Protection Manager to System Center 2016

Scenario

The third System Center 2012 R2 component that you must upgrade to System Center
2016 is Service Manager. As part of the upgrade, you must perform the following
tasks:

-   Back up the existing DPM database.

-   Upgrade the DPM Server.

After the upgrade has been completed, you should open the DPM Administrator
Console to confirm the upgrade to System Center 2016 was successful.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Backup the DPM database

2.  Upgrade DPM to System Center 2016

3.  Verify the upgrade was successful

####   Task 1: Backup the DPM database

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                            |
|----------|----------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-DPM1**                     |
| Tool     | **SQL Server Management Studio** |
| Location | **Desktop**                      |
| Task     | **Back up**                      |
| Database | **DPMDB_LON_DPM1**               |

1.  From the desktop, open **SQL Server 2014 Management Studio**

2.  Use the **Back up** Task against the **DPMDB_LON_DPM1** database to take a
    backup

3.  Confirm the backup completes successfully and then close **SQL Server
    Management Studio**

####   Task 2: Upgrade DPM to System Center 2016

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                                           |
|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-DPM1**                                                    |
| Tool     | **Setup.exe**                                                   |
| Location | **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\DataProtectionManager** |
| Option   | **Data Protection Manager**                                     |

1.  Run **Setup.exe** from **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\
    DataProtectionManager** and select the **Data Protection Manager** option

2.  Accept the license terms and then use the **Check and Install** option to
    start the installation

3.  When prompted, cancel **Setup** and restart **LON-DPM1**

4.  Repeat steps **1 – 3**

5.  Accept all default options and complete the wizard to install **DPM**.

####   Task 3: Verify the upgrade was successful

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                             |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-DPM1**                                      |
| Tool     | **System Center 2016 DPM Administration Console** |
| Location | **Desktop**                                       |
| Option   | **About DPM**                                     |

1.  From the toolbar, open **About DPM** and confirm **System Center 2016** is
    displayed

2.  From the **Management** workspace, open **Agents** and confirm the
    **LON-CM1** agent is requiring an update

3.  Close the **System Center 2016 DPM Administrator Console**

4.  Shut down **LON-DPM1**

5.  From Hyper-V Manager on LON-HOST1, start LON-OM1

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have performed the following DPM
upgrade tasks: Back up the existing DPM database. Upgrade the DPM Server. You
should have then opened the DPM Administrator Console and verified that the
upgrade was successful.

### Exercise 4: Upgrading Operations Manager to System Center 2016

Scenario

The fourth System Center 2012 R2 component that you must upgrade to System
Center 2016 is Operations Manager. As part of the upgrade, you must perform the
following tasks:

1.  Back up the Operations Manager databases.

2.  Upgrade the Management Server and Operations Console.

3.  Upgrade Reporting.

After the upgrade has been completed, open the Operations Console to confirm the
upgrade to System Center 2016 was successful.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Backup the Operations Manager databases

2.  Upgrade the Management Server and Console

3.  Upgrade Reporting

4.  Verify the upgrade was successful

####   Task 1: Backup the Operations Manager databases

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                            |
|----------|----------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-SQ1**                      |
| Tool     | **SQL Server Management Studio** |
| Location | **Desktop**                      |
| Task     | **Back up**                      |
| Database | **OperationsManager**            |

1.  From the desktop, open **SQL Server 2014 Management Studio**

2.  Use the **Back up** Task against the **OperationsManager** database to take
    a backup

3.  Repeat Step 3 for the following databases:

-   OperationsManagerDW

1.  Close **SQL Server Management Studio** and logoff **LON-SQ1**

####   Task 2: Upgrade the Management Server and Console

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                                       |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-OM1**                                                 |
| Tool     | **Setup.exe**                                               |
| Location | **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\OperationsManager** |
| Option   | **Install**                                                 |

1.  Run **Setup.exe** from
    **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\OperationsManager** and select the
    **Install** option

2.  Complete the **Operations Manager Setup** wizard with the following
    settings, all other settings should remain as default:

-   Configure Operations Manager Accounts: **Contoso\\SCOM-DAS** and
    **Pa\$\$w0rd**

1.  Close **Setup** after it completes successfully and then restart **LON-OM1**

####   Task 3: Upgrade Reporting

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                                       |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-SQ1**                                                 |
| Tool     | **Setup.exe**                                               |
| Location | **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\OperationsManager** |
| Option   | **Install**                                                 |

1.  Restart **LON-SQ1**

2.  Run **Setup.exe** from
    **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\OperationsManager** and select the
    **Install** option

3.  Complete the **Operations Manager Setup** wizard accepting all default
    settings.

4.  After **Setup** complete close the **Operations Manager Setup** wizard

5.  Log off **LON-SQ1**

####   Task 4: Verify the upgrade was successful

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                  |
|-----------|------------------------|
| Computer  | **LON-OM1**            |
| Tool      | **Operations Console** |
| Location  | **Start**              |
| Menu item | **Help\\About**        |

1.  Open the **Operations Console** and from the **Help** menu open **About**

2.  Confirm **System Center 2016 Operations Manager** is displayed

3.  From the **Monitoring** workspace confirm **LON-OM1** is displayed in a
    healthy state in the **Windows Computers** view

4.  From the **Distributed Applications** node, open the **Operations Manager
    Management Group** diagram

5.  Review the components in the **Diagram View** and then close the diagram

6.  From the **Reporting** workspace, confirm reports are available in the
    **Microsoft Generic Report Library** folder

7.  Close the **Operations Console**

8.  Shut down **LON-OM1**

9.  From **Hyper-V Manager** on **LON-HOST1**, start **LON-VM1**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have performed the following tasks:
Back up the Operations Manager databases. Upgrade the Management Server and
Operations Console. Upgrade Reporting. You should have then opened the
Operations Console and confirmed the upgrade to System Center 2016 was
successful.

### Exercise 5: Upgrading Virtual Machine Manager to System Center 2016

Scenario

The fifth and final System Center 2012 R2 component that you must upgrade to
System Center 2016 is Virtual Machine Manager. As part of the upgrade, you must
perform the following tasks:

1.  Back up the Virtual Machine Manager databases.

2.  Upgrade the VMM Management server.

After the upgrade has been completed, open the VMM Console to confirm the
upgrade to System Center 2016 was successful.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Backup the Virtual Machine Manager database

2.  Upgrade the VMM Management Server

3.  Verify the upgrade was successful

####   Task 1: Backup the Virtual Machine Manager database

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                            |
|----------|----------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-SQ1**                      |
| Tool     | **SQL Server Management Studio** |
| Location | **Desktop**                      |
| Task     | **Back up**                      |
| Database | **VirtualManagerDB**             |

1.  From the desktop, open **SQL Server 2014 Management Studio**

2.  Use the **Back up** Task against the **VirtualManagerDB** database to take a
    backup

3.  Close **SQL Server Management Studio**

4.  Log off **LON-SQ1**

####   Task 2: Upgrade the VMM Management Server

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location          | Value                       |
|-------------------|-----------------------------|
| Computer          | **LON-VM1**                 |
| Tool              | **Control Panel**           |
| Item              | **Programs and Features**   |
| Program to remove | **Virtual Machine Manager** |

1.  From **Programs and Features** in **Control Panel**, remove **Virtual
    Machine Manager**

2.  During the uninstallation wizard remove the **VMM Management Server** and
    **VMM Console**

3.  Ensure the **Retain database** option is select

4.  After **VMM** is removed restart **LON-VM1**

5.  Login to **LON-VM1**

6.  Navigate to **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\VirtualMachineManager**
    and then run **Setup.exe**

7.  Use the **Install** option to install the **VMM Management Server** and
    **VMM Console** using the following settings, all other settings should
    remain as default:

-   Database configuration: Add **LON-SQ1** and press tab on the keyboard

-   Ensure **Existing database** is selected

-   Service Account: **Contoso\\VMM-SVC** and **Pa\$\$w0rd**

1.  After **Setup** completes, close the wizard

####   Task 3: Verify the upgrade was successful

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                               |
|-----------|-------------------------------------|
| Computer  | **LON-VM1**                         |
| Tool      | **Virtual Machine Manager Console** |
| Location  | **Desktop**                         |
| Menu item | **About**                           |

1.  Open the **Virtual Machine Manager Console** and from the drop-down menu in
    the top-left of the console, open **About**

2.  Confirm **System Center 2016 Virtual Machine Manager** window is displayed

3.  From the **VMs and Services** workspace review the following nodes:

-   Clouds

-   VM Networks

1.  From the **Fabric** workspace review the following nodes:

-   Networking\\Logical Networks

1.  From the **Jobs** workspace, review the **History** node

2.  Close the Virtual Machine Manager Console

3.  Shut down **LON-VM1**

4.  In Hyper-V Manager on **LON-HOST1**, shut down all VMs except **LON-DC1**

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have performed the following tasks:
Back up the Virtual Machine Manager database. Upgrade the VMM Management server.
You should have then opened the VMM Console and confirmed the upgrade to System
Center 2016 was successful.

>   **Question:** When upgrading Operations Manager to System Center 2016, which
>   component is upgraded last in the sequence?

>   ©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

>   The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons
>   Attribution 3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content
>   contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks,
>   logos, images, etc.) are not included within the Creative Commons license
>   grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
>   intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this
>   document for your internal, reference purposes.

>   This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
>   document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
>   without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
>   illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
>   inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to
>   the information provided here.
