Module 18: Operating Operations Management Suite Security and Compliance

Lab: Configuring and Operating the Operations Management Suite Security and Compliance Solution Pack
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Scenario

You have been tasked with implementing the Security and Compliance Solution Pack
for Contoso Ltd. After implementing the solution pack, you must confirm it is
operating as expected by reviewing the various views and dashboards in the
Security and Audit solution and Antimalware Assessment Solution. This includes
reviewing the data collected by Operations Manager managed computers.

Objectives

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Add the Security and Compliance Solution Pack to OMS.

-   Review the insights available through the Antimalware Assessment solution
    pack.

-   Review the insights available through the Security and Audit solution pack.

-   Review data collected from Operations Manager Agents in Operations
    Management Suite.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: **60 minutes**

**LON-HOST1 Virtual Machines:** LON-DC1, LON-SQ1, LON-AP1, LON-VM2, LON-SQ2

**User Name:** Contoso\\Administrator

**Password:** Pa55w.rd

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Add the Security and Compliance Solution Pack to OMS

-   Review the insights available through the Antimalware Assessment solution
    pack

-   Review the insights available through the Security and Audit solution pack

-   Review data collected from Operations Manager Agents in Operations
    Management Suite.

### Exercise 1: Adding the Security and Compliance Solution Pack to OMS

Scenario

Before reviewing the security and audit data collected in OMS, you must first
add the Security and Compliance solution pack through the Solutions Gallery in
the OMS portal. Next, you must confirm that the Security and Audit solution and
Antimalware Assessment solution is available in the OMS portal.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Add the Security and Audit Solution Pack

2. Confirm the Security and Compliance Solution Pack has been added to the OMS
portal

####   Task 1: Add the Security and Audit Solution Pack

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value          |
|----------|----------------|
| Computer | **LON-HOST1**  |
| Tool     | **OMS Portal** |
| Location | **Desktop**    |

1.  From the desktop, open the **OMS Portal**.

2.  Open the **Solutions Gallery** and then add the S**ecurity and Compliance**
    solution pack unless it has already been added

3.  Wait until the **OMS Portal** returns to the **Overview** page

####   Task 2: Confirm the Security and Compliance Solution Pack has been added to the OMS portal

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value          |
|----------|----------------|
| Computer | **LON-HOST1**  |
| Tool     | **OMS Portal** |
| Location | **Desktop**    |

1.  In the **OMS Portal,** open **Settings** and then from the **Solutions**
    tab, confirm the **Security and Audit** and **Antimalware Assessment**
    solutions are listed

2.  From the Overview page, confirm the Security and Audit and Antimalware
    Assessment tiles are visible

3.  Close the **OMS Portal**

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have added the Security and
Compliance Solution Pack to the OMS workspace. You should have also confirmed
that the Security and Audit solution and Antimalware Assessment solution is
available in the OMS portal.

### Exercise 2: Reviewing the Antimalware Assessment Solution Pack

Scenario

You must ensure that the Antimalware Assessment solution is collecting data and
reporting on malware detected on computers managed in OMS. To facilitate this,
you must review the information in the following sections of the Antimalware
Assessment dashboard:

-   Threat Status

-   Detected Threats

-   Protection Status

-   Types of Protection

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Review Threat Status

2. Review Detected Threats

3. Review Protection Status

4. Review Type of Protection

####   Task 1: Review Threat Status

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                     |
|----------|---------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-HOST1**             |
| Tool     | **OMS Experience Center** |
| Location | **Desktop**               |

1.  From the desktop, open the **OMS Experience Center**

2.  Complete the form and select the **Security and Compliance** scenario

3.  Download the PDF to open the **OMS Portal**

4.  Open the **Antimalware Assessment** dashboard and review the following
    information in the Threat Status section:

    -   Computers with detected threats

    -   Computer name

    -   Threat Status

5.  Open the **Log Search** blade by clicking the **OMS-SEC3** computer

6.  Review the information returned from the query including the following
    fields:

    -   Threat

    -   ThreatStatus

    -   ProtectionStatus

    -   TypeofProtection

    -   Computer

7.  Go back to the **Antimalware Assessment** overview page

8.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open

####   Task 2: Review Detected Threats

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                      |
|-----------|----------------------------|
| Computer  | **LON-HOST1**              |
| Tool      | **OMS Experience Center**  |
| Location  | **Desktop**                |
| Dashboard | **Antimalware Assessment** |

1.  Open the **Antimalware Assessment** dashboard and review the following
    information in the **Detected Threats** section:

    -   Threat Name

    -   Computers

2.  Open the **Log Search** blade by clicking the **Virus:DOS/EICAR_Test_File**.
    threat

3.  Review the information returned by the query including the following:

    -   Threat

    -   ThreatStatus

    -   TypeofProtection

    -   ProtectionStatusDetails

    -   Computer

4.  Expand the list of fields and then review the following fields:

    -   SourceSystem

    -   ComputerEnvironment

5.  Go back to the **Antimalware Assessment** overview page

6.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open

####   Task 3: Review Protection Status

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                      |
|-----------|----------------------------|
| Computer  | **LON-HOST1**              |
| Tool      | **OMS Experience Center**  |
| Location  | **Desktop**                |
| Dashboard | **Antimalware Assessment** |

1.  Open the **Antimalware Assessment** dashboard and review the following
    information in the **Protection Status** section:

    -   Computers with insufficient protection

    -   Protection Status

    -   Computers

2.  Open the **Log Search** blade by clicking the **Signature out of date**
    status

3.  Review the computers listed in the query results and then click **POS001.**
    If **POS001** is not available, click a different computer instead.

4.  Review he information returned by the query including the following:

    -   ThreatStatus

    -   TypeofProtection

    -   ProtectionStatusDetails

    -   Computer

5.  Go back to the **Antimalware Assessment** overview page

6.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open

####   Task 4: Review Type of Protection

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                      |
|-----------|----------------------------|
| Computer  | **LON-HOST1**              |
| Tool      | **OMS Experience Center**  |
| Location  | **Desktop**                |
| Dashboard | **Antimalware Assessment** |

1.  Open the **Antimalware Assessment** dashboard and review the following
    information in the **Type of Protection** section:

    -   Computers with antimalware protection

    -   System Center Endpoint Protection

    -   Malicious Software Removal Tool (if available)

    -   Windows Defender

    -   No Anti-Malware Tool was detected

2.  Open the **Log Search** blade by clicking the **Windows Defender**
    protection type

3.  Review the information returned by the query including the following
    filters:

    -   ThreatStatus

    -   TypeofProtection

    -   ProtectionStatusRank

    -   Computer

4.  Go back to the **OMS** overview page

5.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have reviewed the information
available in the Antimalware Assessment dashboard to confirm it is collecting
data and reporting on detected malware.

### Exercise 3: Reviewing the Security and Audit Solution Pack

Scenario

You must ensure that the Security and Audit solution is collecting data and
reporting on security related event generated on computers managed in OMS. To
facilitate this, you must review the information in the following sections of
the Security and Audit dashboard:

-   Security Domains

-   Notable Issues

-   Detections

-   Threat Intelligence

-   Common Security Queries

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Review Security Domains

2. Review Notable Issues

3. Review Detections

4. Review Threat Intelligence

5. Review Common Security Queries

####   Task 1: Review Security Domains

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                     |
|-----------|---------------------------|
| Computer  | **LON-HOST1**             |
| Tool      | **OMS Experience Center** |
| Location  | **Desktop**               |
| Dashboard | **Security and Audit**    |

1.  Open the **Security and Audit** dashboard and review the following
    information in the **Security Domains** section:

    -   Security records over time

    -   Antimalware Assessment

    -   Update Assessment

    -   Network Security

    -   Identity and Access

    -   Computers

    -   Threat Intelligence

    -   Baseline Assignment

2.  Go back to the **Security and Audit** overview page

3.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open

####   Task 2: Review Notable Issues

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                     |
|-----------|---------------------------|
| Computer  | **LON-HOST1**             |
| Tool      | **OMS Experience Center** |
| Location  | **Desktop**               |
| Dashboard | **Security and Audit**    |

1.  Open the **Security and Audit** dashboard and review the following
    information in the **Notable Issues** section:

    -   Active Issue Types

    -   Name

    -   Count

    -   Severity

2.  Open the **Log Search** blade by clicking the **Computers with missing
    security updates.** issue

3.  Review the list of computers returned and open **EX01.contoso.com**

4.  Review the information returned by the query including the following:

    -   Title

    -   MSRCSeverity

    -   Computer

    -   Product

    -   Classification

    -   KBID

    -   UpdateState

5.  Go back to the **Security and Audit** overview page

6.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open

####   Task 3: Review Detections

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                     |
|-----------|---------------------------|
| Computer  | **LON-HOST1**             |
| Tool      | **OMS Experience Center** |
| Location  | **Desktop**               |
| Dashboard | **Security and Audit**    |

1.  Open the **Security and Audit** dashboard and review the following
    information in the **Detections** section:

    -   Detections Over Time

    -   Name

    -   Count

    -   Severity

2.  Open the **Log Search** blade by clicking the **Failed RDP Brute Force
    Attack** detection. If the **Failed RDP Brute Force Attack** detection is
    not displayed, click a different detection instead.

3.  Review the information returned by the query including the following:

    -   Computer

    -   Provider

    -   Alert Severity

    -   Source

    -   Failed Attempts

    -   Failed User Logons

4.  Note that if you selected a detection other than the **RDP Brute Force
    Attack** detection, the properties displayed above may differ. If this is
    the case, review the different properties instead.

5.  If available, review the information in the **Failed Brite Force Attack**
    and **Remediation Steps** sections

6.  Go back to the **Security and Audit** overview page

7.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open

####   Task 4: Review Threat Intelligence

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                     |
|-----------|---------------------------|
| Computer  | **LON-HOST1**             |
| Tool      | **OMS Experience Center** |
| Location  | **Desktop**               |
| Dashboard | **Security and Audit**    |

1.  Open the **Security and Audit** dashboard and review the following
    information in the **Threat Intelligence** section:

    -   Servers with outbound malicious traffic

    -   Detected threat types

    -   Location map

2.  Click a red icon on the location map and then review the popup details. Then
    use the **Open Dashboard** link to open the **Threat Intelligence**
    dashboard. If a red icon is not available, change the **Data base on** date
    to a date three months ago and then return to the beginning of this task

3.  Review the Threat Breakdown and Threat Location sections in the Threat
    Intelligence dashboard

4.  In the location map click a red icon and then review the **Threat Details**
    section.

5.  Open the **Log Search** blade by clicking the **X Outgoing** hyperlink under
    the **Traffic** section

6.  Review the information returned by the query including the following:

    -   Computer

    -   FirewallAction

    -   Protocol

    -   SourceIP

    -   DesinationIP

    -   CommunicationDirection

    -   Severity

    -   MaliciousIPCountry

7.  Go back to the **Security and Audit** overview page

8.  Close the **OMS Experience Center** Portal

####   Task 5: Review Common Security Queries

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                  |
|-----------|------------------------|
| Computer  | **LON-HOST1**          |
| Tool      | **OMS Portal**         |
| Location  | **Desktop**            |
| Dashboard | **Security and Audit** |

1.  Login to the **OMS Portal** with your **Microsoft Account** credentials

2.  Open the **Security and Audit** dashboard and then from the **Common
    Security Queries** section run each of the following queries and review the
    information returned. Note that not all queries will return information.
    This is expected.

    -   All Security Activities

    -   Security Activities on the computer

    -   Logon Activity by Computer

    -   Accounts who terminated Microsoft antimalware on any computer

    -   Computers where the Microsoft antimalware process was terminated

    -   Computers where “hash.exe” was executed

    -   All Process names that were executed

    -   Logon Activity by Account

    -   Accounts who remotely logged on the computer

3.  Go back to the home page

4.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have reviewed the information
available in the Security and Audit dashboard to confirm it is collecting data
and reporting on detected security events.

### Exercise 4: Reviewing data collected from Operations Manager

Scenario

Because Contoso’s computers managed by Operations Manager are also managed in
OMS, you need to ensure security data for these computers are also being
collected. To facilitate this, you must use the Log Search feature in OMS to
return security event data where its source is Operations Manager.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a query to return Operations Manager data

2. Customize the query for a specific computer

####   Task 1: Create a query to return Operations Manager data

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                  |
|-----------|------------------------|
| Computer  | **LON-HOST1**          |
| Tool      | **OMS Portal**         |
| Location  | **Desktop**            |
| Dashboard | **Security and Audit** |

1.  Open the **Security and Audit** dashboard and from the **Common Security
    Querie**s section run the **All Security Activities** query.

2.  Review the query and results from running the query

3.  Edit the query to reflect the query below:

Type=SecurityEvent SourceSystem = "OpsManager" \| Select
TimeGenerated,Account,Activity,Computer,SourceSystem

1.  Run the query and confirm only events with a **SourceSystem** of
    **OpsManager** are returned

2.  Leave the **Log Search** window open

####   Task 2: Customize the query for a specific computer

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location  | Value                  |
|-----------|------------------------|
| Computer  | **LON-HOST1**          |
| Tool      | **OMS Portal**         |
| Location  | **Desktop**            |
| Dashboard | **Security and Audit** |

1.  In the Log Search window that was left open in the previous task, edit the
    query as shown below:

Type=SecurityEvent SourceSystem = "OpsManager" Computer = "LON-DC1.contoso.com"
\| Select TimeGenerated,Account,Activity,Computer,SourceSystem,Computer

1.  Execute the query and confirm in the results that only events that have a
    **SourceSystem** of **OpsManager** and a **Computer** of
    **LON-DC1.contoso.com** are returned

2.  Close the **Log Search** window and then close the **OMS Portal**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have designed a query using the Log
Search feature in OMS to return all security events collected from Operations
Manager agents. You should have also customized the query to return data from a
specific computer that hosts the Operations Manager agent.

>   **Question:** You need to determine which computers do not have an adequate
>   antimalware solution installed. What is the quickest method of facilitating
>   this?

>   ©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

>   The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons
>   Attribution 3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content
>   contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks,
>   logos, images, etc.) are not included within the Creative Commons license
>   grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
>   intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this
>   document for your internal, reference purposes.

>   This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
>   document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
>   without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
>   illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
>   inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to
>   the information provided here.
