Module 12: Operating Operations Management Suite Insight and Analytics

Lab: Operating the Operations Management Suite Insight and Analytics Solution Packs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Scenario

>   The Insight and Analytics Solution Packs have been running in the Contoso
>   Ltd. environment for some time and both the Service Map and Network
>   Performance Monitor dashboards display meaningful data. You notice that
>   several health events have been triggered in the Network Performance Monitor
>   dashboard resulting in multiple emails being sent to the
>   NetAdmin\@Contoso.com mailbox. You have been asked to investigate the
>   networking issue to find the root cause. Additionally, Contoso is in the
>   process of migrating a number of workloads from their on-premises datacenter
>   to Azure. You have been asked to document all servers that comprise the
>   workload for the workload to be migrated successfully.

Objectives

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Use the Network Performance Monitor dashboard to troubleshoot a network
    performance-related issue.

-   Use the Service Map dashboard to determine application dependency.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: **30 Minutes**

**LON-HOST1 Virtual Machines:** LON-DC1, LON-SQ1

**User Name:** Contoso\\Administrator

**Password**: Pa55w.rd

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Use the Network Performance Monitor dashboard to troubleshoot a network
    performance-related issue.

-   Use the Service Map dashboard to determine application dependency.

### Exercise 1: Using Network Performance Monitor to troubleshoot a networking issue

Scenario

Some staff members at Contoso are reporting problems in accessing the corporate
human resources (HR) website. The helpdesk has also logged several issues
relating to the HR website performance. You suspect that the network in which
the HR website server resides is at fault because several health events for this
network have been generated in the Network Performance Monitor dashboard.
Additionally, the NetAdmin\@Contoso.com mailbox has received multiple email
message relating to the same problem. You must use the Network Performance
Monitor dashboard to investigate the problem and find the root cause.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Review Network Summary information

2. Review Top Network Health Events information

3. Review Top Network Links information

4. Customize Common Queries

####   Task 1: Review Network Summary information

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                           |
|----------|---------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-HOST1**                   |
| Tool     | **OMS Portal**                  |
| Location | **Desktop**                     |
| Tile     | **Network Performance Monitor** |

1.  In the **OMS Portal,** open the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard
    and then review the following tiles from the **Network Summary** section

    -   Current Networks

    -   Subnetwork Links

    -   Network Links

    -   Paths

2.  Open the **Network Links** page and review the **Latency** and **Loss**
    information in the **Trend Chart** for the **Contoso HR Network -\> Contoso
    Corp Network** Link

3.  Return to the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboards home page

####   Task 2: Review Top Network Health Events information

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                           |
|----------|---------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-HOST1**                   |
| Tool     | **OMS Portal**                  |
| Location | **Desktop**                     |
| Tile     | **Network Performance Monitor** |

1.  Review the following tiles from the **Top Network Health Events** section

    -   Active Health Events

    -   Unhealthy Network Links

2.  From the **Active Health Events** section use the **HR Network Monitor**
    rule to open the A**ffected Subnetwork Links** page

3.  Review the information in the **Affected Subnetwork Links** page and then
    change the time range to **6 Hours** and then review the changes to the page

4.  Use the **View affected node links** hyper-link to open the **Node Links**
    page

5.  Review the information in the **Node Links** page and then use the **View
    Topology** hyper-link to open the **Topology Dashboard**

6.  Review the information in the **Topology Dashboard** and then return to the
    home page of the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard

7.  From the **Unhealthy Network Links** section, use the **Contoso HR Network
    -\> Contoso Corporate Network** Network Link to open the **Subnetwork
    Links** page

8.  Review the information in the **Subnetwork Links** page and then return to
    the home page of the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard

####   Task 3: Review Top Network Links information

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                           |
|----------|---------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-HOST1**                   |
| Tool     | **OMS Portal**                  |
| Location | **Desktop**                     |
| Tile     | **Network Performance Monitor** |

1.  Review the following tiles from the **Top Subnetwork Links** section

    -   Subnetwork Links With Most Loss

    -   Subnetwork Links With Most Latency

2.  From the **Subnetwork Links With Most Loss** section open the first
    Subnetwork link

3.  Review the following information:

    -   Node Links

    -   IP Interfaces

    -   Loss

    -   Latency

    -   Health

4.  Review the **Trend Chart** and then use the **View Topology** link to open
    the **Topology Dashboard**

5.  Review the **Nodes**, **Links** and **Hops** in the dashboard and then
    return to the **Network Performance Monitor** home page

6.  From the **Subnetwork Links With Most Latency** section, open the second
    Subnetwork Link to open the **Node Links** page

7.  Repeat Steps 3 - 5

8.  Return to the **Network Performance Monitor** home page

####   Task 4: Customize Common Queries

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                           |
|----------|---------------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-HOST1**                   |
| Tool     | **OMS Portal**                  |
| Location | **Desktop**                     |
| Tile     | **Network Performance Monitor** |

1.  Review the queries available from the **Common Queries** section

2.  Open the **Log Data For All Network Links** query and append the following
    to the query:

>   SourceNetwork = "Contoso HR Network"

1.  Run the customized query and review the results

2.  Return to the **Network Performance Monitor** dashboard and open the **Log
    Data For All Unhealthy Network Links** query

3.  Append the following to the query:

>   SourceNetwork = "Contoso HR Network" HighLatency \< 2

1.  Review the results and then return to the hope page of the **OMS Portal.**

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have used the Network Monitor
Performance dashboard to investigate a network issue relating to the HR website
at Contoso. This includes operating the following sections of the dashboard:
Network Summary. Top Network Health Events. Top Network Links. Common Queries.
You should have also customized an existing common query to return targeted
information relating to the network on which the Contoso HR website runs.

### Exercise 2: Using Service Map to review application dependency

Scenario

The Contoso Finance application is due to be migrated to Azure. Because the
application has grown considerably over recent years, you do not have a clear
understanding of which applications servers, back-end databases, and front-end
website servers are dependents of the application. To facilitate this, you must
use Service Map to understand and document the servers that the Finance
application depends upon.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Review application dependencies for the Finance application

2. Review detected changes and security issues

####   Task 1: Review application dependencies for the Finance application

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value           |
|----------|-----------------|
| Computer | **LON-HOST1**   |
| Tool     | **OMS Portal**  |
| Location | **Desktop**     |
| Tile     | **Service Map** |

1.  In the **OMS Portal,** open the **Service Map** dashboard and then from the
    machine list select **LON-SQ1**

2.  Review the **Machine Summary** for **LON-SQ1**

3.  Note the **Clients** connected to the **LSA Shell** process

4.  Note the **Servers** connected to the **svchost** process

5.  Change the **Focus Machine** to the **Client** noted in **Step 3**

6.  Use the following tiles in the right-hand pane to review information about
    the selected **Focus Machine**:

    -   Properties

    -   Performance

    -   Log Events

7.  Leave the **Service Map** page open

####   Task 2: Review detected changes and security issues

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                       |
|----------|-----------------------------|
| Computer | **LON-HOST1**               |
| Tool     | **OMS Experience Center**   |
| Location | **Desktop**                 |
| Scenario | **Security and Compliance** |

1.  In the **OMS Experience Center Portal,** open the **Service Map** dashboard
    and then from the machine list select **AcmeWFE001**

2.  Use the following tiles from the left-hand side of the page to review
    information about **AcmeWFE001**

    -   Changes

    -   Security (use AcmeWFE002) for this

3.  Close the **OMS Experience Center Portal**

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have used Service Map to review the
application dependencies of the Finance application. You should have also used
Service Map to review change tracking, security issues, and updates relevant to
the Finance application.

>   **Question:** You are reviewing application dependency for an application in
>   the Service Map dashboard. One of the dependents for the application does
>   not show any other information other than its IP address. You know that this
>   dependent machine is running Windows Server 2016. What should you do in
>   order to review detailed information about this machine in Service Map?

>   ©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

>   The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons
>   Attribution 3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content
>   contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks,
>   logos, images, etc.) are not included within the Creative Commons license
>   grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
>   intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this
>   document for your internal, reference purposes.

>   This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
>   document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
>   without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
>   illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
>   inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to
>   the information provided here.
